In the previous video, we already learn about
the concept of etherchannel.
The point is, etherchannel is used to grouping
multiple physical interface become 1 logical interface.
So spanning tree will not block any interface.
And the bandwidth now become 300mega, because
100mega multiply by 3.
To configure an etherchannel, we have 3 options,
first, we can use LACP, LACP is an open standard,
this is means that LACP can used in all networking
vendor, not just cisco.
The second options is PAGP, PAGP is a cisco
proprietary.
This is means that we only can configure PAGP
in cisco switch.
If we have cisco switch meet with hp switch
let’s say, so we can not use PAGP, we must
use LACP.
But if cisco switch meet with cisco switch,
we can use PAGP or LACP.
And the last option is, we can use layer 3
etherchannel.
This is also an open protocol.
But for now let’s just focus on lacp and
pagp first.
We will learn about layer 3 etherchannel later
in the next video.
Let’s just start.
Open swith 0, enable, configure terminal, and
then go to the interface, in this case the
interface that connected to switch 1 is fa0/1
until fa0/3.
So interface range fa0/1-3.
The first thing that we need to do is configure
the interface as trunk.
So switchport mode trunk.
Okay now fa0/1 until fa0/3 is already trunk.
Next, let’s configure the etherchannel.
The command is channel-group question mark,
here we have an option 1 until 6,
this is the etherchannel id.
In this case let’s say I use 1, then mode,
and then question mark again, okay here we
have some options for the mode.
If we want to configure etherchannel LACP,
the option is active and passive,
but if we want to configure etherchannel PAGP, the option
is auto and desirable.
In this video, we are going to configure lacp
first, so the option is active and passive.
If we use mode active, so the switch will
invite the neighbor to activate the etherchannel.
But if we use passive, this is means that
the switch will wait for invitation from the
neighbor.
So we need to configure at least 1 switch
to become active.
For example switch 0 active and switch 1 passive,
the etherchannel will up.
But if we configure switch 0 passive and switch 1
also passive, the etherchannel will not up.
How if we configure switch 0 to active and
switch 1 also active?
Absolutely the etherchannel also up.
Okay, let’s say here we want to configure
switch 0 to active.
Now we have done configuring etherchannel
on switch 0.
Next let’s configure etherchannel in the
switch 1.
Enable, configure terminal, and then interface
range fa0/1-3.
First let’s configure the interface to trunk,
so switchport mode trunk.
Next let’s configure the etherchannel, channel-group,
and for the id, we must use the same id as switch 0.
In the switch 0 we use id 1, so here
we need to use 1.
For the mode, because switch 0 is active, so
here we can use active or passive.
Let’s try to use passive.
Okay now we have done configuring etherchannel,
let’s fast forward time.
Okay here we can see that now all interface
is green.
This is means that there is no interface blocked
by spanning tree.
For the testing, we can use command do show
etherchannel summary.
Here we can se po1, po is port channel, and
1 is the id that we have configured.
Here we have uppercase S and uppercase U.
Uppercase s means layer 2, and uppercase u
means in use.
The protocol is LACP, and the port is fa0/1
until fa0/3.
And all of the interface is uppercase P, uppercase
P means in port channel.
Okay, so the etherchannel in switch 0 is ok.
Let’s also check on switch 1.
Do show etherchannel summary, here we can
see po1, uppercase S and uppercase U, uppercase S
means layer 2, and uppercase U means in
use.
The protocol is LACP, the interface is fa0/1-3,
and all of the interface is uppercase P,
uppercase P means in port channel.
Okay so now the etherchannel is up.
Let’s add 2 pc to make sure that the etherchannel
is really ok.
Configure the ip address, here 192.168.1.1,
and then this is 192.168..1.2.
Now let’s test the ping.
Okay here we can see that the ping is success.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to learn how to configure
etherchannel pagp.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.